# Bloviate — A bot running on GAE that posts to Blogger

Bloviate is a collection of servlets running on Google App Engine. 

The bot includes a servlet called by a cron job, which automatically posts to a blog hosted by Blogger by using the Blogger API to post to Blogger. 

In addition, the main servlet displays a form and handles the authentication through OAuth for first-time use.

## Origins of Bloviate

This bot was written with the original intent that the posts would show up on Twitter, using IFTTT to copy the content which was posted to the blog to a connected Twitter account. 

Additionally, the posts were generated by selecting and add a Twitter handle using a “reservoir sampling” algorithm from a file which contained a list of Twitter handles to the blog post, followed by some text content retrieved from Wordnik.

However, since this bot was first created, the service on IFTTT which would copy the content of the blog post to Twitter now requires a paid plan to use (probably to reflect the need for Twitter API access), and the Knicker library to access Wordnik for the creation of a random post no longer works.

Furthermore, the original logic heavily relied on static files to hold the Blogger ID, OAuth keys, and Twitter handles—items which are not static by nature and subject to change.

## Improvements to the original Bloviate

The improvements to the architecture of the bot revolve around moving the business logic out of the servlet classes, which now act more like controllers, into a service file which contains the majority of the helper functions.

The code now relies on Maven for the dependencies, and the deployment to App Engine Standard environment.

Post content is retrieved from a static file. 

## Setting Up Bloviate

1. Create a blog on Blogger that Bloviate will post to
    1. Go to https://www.blogger.com/dashboard/ and click "Create a blog".
    2. Log into your Google account
    3. Choose a Title and a URL for the blog
    4. Click Create
    5. Take note of the Blog ID—it's the 19 digit number that appears after the blogger.com URL.
    
2. Create a Google App Engine application for Bloviate
    1. Go to https://console.cloud.google.com/appengine and click "Create project"
    2. Name the project "Bloviate"
    3. Take note of the project ID—it's generated automatically.

3. Create an OAuth Client ID and Secret so that Bloviate can authenticate and post to Blogger.
    1. Go to https://console.developers.google.com/apis/ 
    2. Select the "Bloviate" project. 
    3. Click on Credentials in the left menu
    4. Click Create credentials and choose OAuth Client ID
    5. Configure the Google Auth Platform and choose External consent.
    6. Under Application type, select Web application. 
    7. Name the application Bloviate. 
    8. Under Authorized redirect URIs, input your redirect URI here. For now you can just set it to http://localhost:8080/oauth2callback but later you must use the actual callback URL that the app will use when uploaded to the Google App Engine.
    9. Click Create
    10. Take note of the Client ID and Client Secret.

4. Add a test user to your OAuth application
    1. Go to https://console.cloud.google.com/auth/audience and choose your project
    2. Under Test users, click Add users
    3. Add your Google account e-mail and click save.

5. Enable the Blogger API so Bloviate can post
    1. Go to https://console.developers.google.com/apis/api/blogger.googleapis.com/
    2. Click Enable

6. Test Bloviate on your local server 
    1. From the project root, run `mvn package appengine:run` 
    2. Visit http://localhost:8080/ to test that Bloviate works.

7. Deploy Bloviate to Google App Engine.
    1. Run `gcloud auth login` and log in with your Google account.
    2. Run `gcloud config set [YOUR_PROJECT_ID]` with your Google App Engine project ID you noted earlier.
    2. Deploy to GAE using `mvn package appengine:deploy -Dapp.deploy.projectId=[YOUR_PROJECT_ID]` again using your GAE project ID.
    3. Go back to Step 3.8 and add your callback URL.

----------

## Cutomization

You can set the frequency of the posting to the blog in the `cron.xml` file.

You can change the content of the posts by adding or removing sentences to the `bloviate.txt` file, or creating your own logic to generate post content.
